# **Open Resume**

Welcome to our documentation! We hope that you will enjoy skimming through it as much as we enjoy developing our piece of software!

The documentation doesn't reflect the current state of the application. It's more of a **design document**. This particular page was created to make you more familiar with the key concepts behind our design.

## Resumes adjusted to _you_

We do our best to make Open Resume powerful. We are confident that when it comes to resumes, you want them to be adjusted to you, as these documents has one goal in mind - showing off who _you_ are. 

As a result, you are able to tweak many aspects of your resume (and the application itself), including creating your own templates (although this requires being knowledgable about HTML, CSS and YAML). We aim for providing both CLI and GUI interfaces, to best match your needs.

## Simple

No matter the effort, some things may be unclear to you. We do our best to update this documentation as we go further down the rabbit hole. You can use it to understand the features more, but also to get acustomed with abstraction layer of our code base.

Making the user experience as straightforward as possible is one of our main concerns. With all the possibilites at your disposal, it's easy to get lost. We work hard on ensuring that creating a resume of your dreams is as pain-free as possible.

## Human-ready

As a species, each of us differs from one another. Some of us pertain technical knowledge, and we believe that this set of people would be happy that we provide a clearly defined way to customize the application itself. We also give you the CLI interface for automation purposes (and those of you who prefer console to GUI).

Those of you who just want to create a resume (and perhaps tweak it a little) are enabled to use a GUI. Comming up with all your details on the fly is rather lengthy process, but assuming that you have all the data ready, our app allows you to generate resumes in minutes.

## Free and Open Source

We don't implement features that requires you to spend any money. We keep the project sustainable by accepting external resources and offering our personal income.

We develop the application out of sher love to open source communities all over the world. Our work is licensed under a permissive MIT License, and we host our code on GitHub.

To build the application and this documentation, we use open source libraries and frameworks. Building Open Resume can be done without spending a dim.

Usage of tools varies for each team member. While we do our best to opt for open source tools, we acknowledge that their propietrary counterparts can sometimes better suit our needs. We find paying for stuff beneficial at times.

## Multi-platform

We build our app using Electron framework. As a consequence, we publish Linux, Windows and MacOS executables. Creating web or mobile interfaces is out of scope of this project.

## Dynamic by Nature

We utilize some concepts (more on them in **Concepts** menu section) to make Open Resume achievable for a small [team](contributors) that we currently are. For us, everything resolves around [templates](concepts/template/). Using YAML, we defined a structure of each and every resume template that can be generated by our application, no matter pre-defined or custom. Because we decided on this common layer of abstraction, we simplified some features that would be difficult to code otherwise.

For starters, editing resume sections layout is as simple as spewing new YAML definition that adhere to our format. More so, it can be edited by hand, or even generated by a third party software. We imagine that it would make it possible to write a web interface, with our CLI working on server-side. It would most probably be unefficient performance-wise, but the possibilites are there.

While we do our best to give you the sane defaults, it's up to you if you take the gift or not. No hard feelings whatsoever.